# Luigi task

Source: https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-build-a-data-processing-pipeline-using-luigi-in-python-on-ubuntu-20-04#step-2-creating-a-luigi-task

A Luigi task is where the execution of your pipeline and the definition of each task’s input and output dependencies take place. Tasks are the building blocks that you will create your pipeline from. You define them in a class, which contains:
* A `run()` method that holds the logic for executing the task.
* An `output()` method that returns the artifacts generated by the task. The run() method populates these artifacts.
* An optional `input()` method that returns any additional tasks in your pipeline that are required to execute the current task. The `run()` method uses these to carry out the task.

```python
import luigi

class HelloLuigi(luigi.Task):
    
    # def requires(self):
    #     return RequiredTask()
    
    def output(self):
        return luigi.LocalTarget('hello-luigi.txt')

    def run(self):
        with self.output().open("w") as outfile:
            outfile.write("Hello Luigi!")
```

You define that HelloLuigi() is a Luigi task by adding the luigi.Task mixin to it.

The output() method defines one or more Target outputs that your task produces. In the case of this example, you define a luigi.LocalTarget, which is a local file.

To execute the task you created, run the following command:

```commandline
python -m luigi --module hello-world HelloLuigi --local-scheduler
```

Here, you run the task using python -m instead of executing the luigi command directly; this is because Luigi can only execute code that is within the current PYTHONPATH. You can alternatively add PYTHONPATH='.' to the front of your Luigi command, like so:

```commandline
PYTHONPATH='.' luigi --module hello-world HelloLuigi --local-scheduler
```

With the `--module hello-world HelloLuigi` flag, you tell Luigi which Python module and Luigi task to execute.

The `--local-scheduler` flag tells Luigi to not connect to a Luigi scheduler and, instead, execute this task locally. Running tasks using the local-scheduler flag is only recommended for development work.
